==Account Creation==

An account is uniquely identified by the client's public account key (pubkey),
which the client provides during registration.
After registration, the client does not identify themselves with their pubkey
directly.
Instead, the account is identified by an '''account ID''', which is the
double Blake-256 hash of the client's pubkey,
'''''<code>blake256(blake256(pubkey))</code>''''', provided as a hex-encoded
string in API messages.

===Step 1: Registration===

The user creates a websocket connection and sends their
[[fundamentals.mediawiki/#Identities_based_on_Public_Key_Infrastructure_PKI_Key_Pairs|public account key]].
The message is signed with the corresponding private account key. The response
includes the server's public key. The server's public key will also be
pre-published for further validation.

'''Request route:''' <code>register</code>, '''originator: ''' client

<code>payload</code>
{|
! field     !! type   !! description
|-
| pubkey    || string || hex-encoded public account key
|-
| timestamp || int    || UNIX timestamp
|-
| sig       || string || hex-encoded signature of serialized registration. serialization described below
|}

'''Registration serialization'''

{|
! field     !! size (bytes) !! description
|-
| pubkey    || 33 || the user's public account key
|-
| timestamp || 8  || the client's UNIX timestamp
|}

'''DEX response'''

<code>result</code>
{|
! field     !! type   !! description
|-
| pubkey    || string || hex-encoded server public key
|-
| address   || string || fee address
|-
| fee       || int    || fee (atoms)
|-
| timestamp || int    || UNIX timestamp
|-
| sig       || string || hex-encoded signature of the serialized response. serialization described below
|}

'''Response serialization'''

{|
! field      !! size (bytes) !! description
|-
| DEX pubkey || 33 || the server's public key
|-
| client pubkey || 33 || the client's public account  key
|-
| timestamp  || 8  || the server's UNIX timestamp
|-
| fee        || 8  || registration fee (atoms)
|-
| address    || varies || UTF-8 encoded fee address
|}

===Step 2: Fee Notification===

The client pays the fee on-chain and notifies the DEX of the transaction detail.
The fee is paid with a standard P2PKH output to the address received in step 1.
Once the transaction is mined and has the
[[fundamentals.mediawiki/#Exchange_Variables|requisite number of confirmations (swapconf)]],
the client should send their fee notification to complete
the registration process.

'''Request route:''' <code>notifyfee</code>, '''originator: ''' client

<code>payload</code>
{|
! field     !! type   !! description
|-
| accountid || string || client's account ID
|-
| coinid    || string || hex-encoded coin ID
|-
| timestamp || int    || UNIX timestamp
|-
| sig       || string || hex-encoded signature of serialized fee notification. serialization described below
|}

'''Notification serialization'''

{|
! field      !! size (bytes) !! description
|-
| account ID || 16 || client account ID
|-
| coin ID    || asset-dependent || the coin ID
|}

<code>result</code>

{|
! field     !! type   !! description
|-
| sig       || string || server hex-encoded signature of client's serialized notification
|}

The client can then authenticate their connection using the
<code>connect</code> route and begin trading.
