=Community Conduct=

__TOC__

By registering, clients agree to abide by the rules described here. These rules
are designed to ensure that clients are acting in good faith and maintaining
behaviors that contribute to a smooth DEX experience for other users.

==Rules of Community Conduct==

===Rule 1: Clients must respond to all preimage requests===

At the expiration of the epoch, every client with an order will receive a
<code>preimage</code> request. The client has 5 seconds to respond.

===Rule 2: Every match must be fully settled===

Swap transactions must be created at the correct times (see
[[fundamentals.mediawiki/#Exchange_Variables|broadcast timeout]]).

In the event that the maker fails to start the atomic swap process with their
initialization transaction, the taker will be notified that order execution is
terminated due to failure of the maker to accept the order. The Maker's limit
order will not go back on the order book, but they may be given the option to
replace the order.

In the event that the taker fails to respond to the maker's initialization
transaction, the maker will incur no violation.

===Rule 3: An account's cancellation ratio must remain below the threshold===

The cancellation ratio is the ratio of the count of canceled orders to the
count of completed orders.
The cancellation threshold is set by the DEX operator.
An order is considered completed when all matches have fully settled.
An order is considered canceled when a cancel order is matched to a standing
limit order. The server may also cancel an order if the client's connection is
dropped and the client fails to reconnect for more than 1 epoch duration.
Cancellation of a partially filled order is counted as a full cancellation.
The cancellation ratio is evaluated on a 25-order rolling window.

===Rule 4: Transaction outputs must be properly sized===

The swap output value must be sized to exactly the matched amount. The fee rate
must be at least the minimum value set by the DEX. It is the client's
responsibility to ensure that fees on a partial fill are not overpaid to a
level that results in a violation of rules 1 or 3 when the remaining portion is
matched.

==Penalties==

The primary penalty for breaches of conduct is a '''ban''', which includes loss
of trading privileges, forfeiture of registration fee, and immediate revocation
of any unfilled orders.

Less drastic punitive measures such as a cool-down period may be considered
for minor, first-time or infrequent conduct violations.

===Penalization Notification===

In the event that a rule is broken, the client will be sent a notification that
includes the broken rule, a detailed description of the offense, the time of
the penalization, and the duration. If the client is offline, this information
can be found in the [[comm.mediawiki/#Session_Authentication|connect response]].

'''Notification route:''' <code>penalize</code>, '''originator: ''' dex

<code>payload</code>
{|
! field      !! type   !! description
|-
| accountid   || string || hex encoding of the client's account ID
|-
| broken rule || int || the rule that was broken
|-
| timestamp   || int || the UNIX time in milliseconds at which the penalization occured
|-
| duration    || int || the duration in milliseconds of the penalization
|-
| details     || string || a message describing the penalization
|-
| sig         || string || hex-encoded server's signature of the serialized penalization data
|}
