==Communication Protocols==

===WebSockets===

Trustless negotiation of trades requires considerable messaging.
Transaction details must be reported and relayed at appropriate times, sometimes
with substantial delays between subsequent actions.
Match notification via HTTP polling or other request interval-based methods are
thus not suitable for the DEX system.
Persistent, full-duplex communication is critical to minimizing communication
latencies and wasted bandwidth.
Websockets ([https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455 &#91;4&#93;]) are chosen as the
default and preferred communications protocol for
the DEX exchange API.
In addition to fulfilling the aforementioned needs, Websockets are now a
well-established technology with client software available for integration in
virtually all popular programming languages.

Websocket messages are secured by encryption on Transport Layer
Security (TLS) [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8446 &#91;5&#93;] connections.

===Message Protocol===

DEX messaging is JSON-formatted [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259 &#91;6&#93;].
All messages, regardless of originating party, use a common top-level
structure called a '''Message'''.

'''JSON Message object'''

{|
! field    !! type !! description
|-
| type    || int || message type
|-
| payload || any || the data being transmitted
|-
| route   || string || the route identifier. requests and notifications only
|-
| id      || int > 0 || the request ID. requests and responses only
|}

There are three anticipated message types.

'''Message types'''

{|
| type         || id || description
|-
| request      || 1 || a request is typically an uninitiated message that seeks a response
|-
| response     || 2 || a response to a request
|-
| notification || 3 || usually part of a data feed. requires no response
|}

'''Example request'''

The payload for a request can be of any type.

<pre>
{
	"type": 1,
	"id": 123,
	"route" "sendnum",
	"payload": 5
}
</pre>

'''Response payload'''

The payload for a response has a structure that enables quick error checking.

{|
! field    !! type !! description
|-
| result || any || the result. field is missing or null if an error was encountered
|-
| error   || string or null || the error. field is null or missing if no error was encountered
|}

'''Example response'''

<pre>
{
	"type": 2,
	"id": 123,
	"payload": { "result": true }
}
</pre>

'''Example notification'''

<pre>
{
	"type": 3,
	"route": "notifynums"
	"payload": [1, 5, 3, 9]
}
</pre>

===HTTP===

An API using HTTP for message transport may be provided for basic account
management and server status queries, however websocket connections are to be
the sole means for
[[#Client_Order_Management|placing, monitoring, and executing orders]].
The primary reason for limiting the scope of the HTTP API is to eliminate client
polling for rapidly changing resources, such as order status API endpoints.

==References==

&#91;4&#93; [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455 The WebSocket Protocol]

&#91;5&#93; [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8446 Transport Layer Security 1.3]

&#91;6&#93; [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259 JSON]
