=Communication Protocols=

__TOC__

==WebSockets==

Trustless negotiation of trades requires considerable messaging.
Transaction details must be reported and relayed at appropriate times, sometimes
with substantial delays between subsequent actions.
Match notification via HTTP polling or other request interval-based methods are
thus not suitable for the DEX system.
Persistent, full-duplex communication is critical to minimizing communication
latencies and wasted bandwidth.
WebSockets ([https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455 &#91;3&#93;]) are chosen as the
default and preferred communications protocol for
the DEX exchange API.
In addition to fulfilling the aforementioned needs, Websockets are now a
well-established technology with client software available for integration in
virtually all popular programming languages.

WebSocket messages are secured by encryption on Transport Layer
Security (TLS) [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8446 &#91;4&#93;] connections.

==Encoding==

===Timestamps===

In all client-server messages that include a timestamp or duration field, the
units of time are milliseconds unless otherwise specified. Location-independent
timestamps are encoded as milliseconds since the UNIX epoch (Jan 01 00:00:00
1970 UTC).

If a timestamp must be converted to seconds, e.g. for encoding as a locktime in
a swap contract, the timestamp should be rounded down.

===Rate Encoding===

Because the rate assigned to a limit order is a quotient, the value is naturally
expressed as a floating point number.
To avoid floating-point error, rates in API messages are encoded using a
custom unit, '''atoms quote asset per unit base asset'''.
This is called the '''message-rate format'''.
This can alternatively be viewed as conventional rate multiplied by
10<sup>8</sup> and floored to the nearest integer.

As an example of message-rate encoding, if someone wanted to purchase asset Z
using asset Y on the Z/Y market, and the user wanted to pay 0.001 Y for each 1
Z, the message-rate encoding would be

'''''r<sub>msg</sub> = 1 x 10<sup>8</sup> x 0.001 = 100000'''''

with unit ''atoms Y / unit Z''.

===Coin ID===

In order to demonstrate control of unspent value on the blockchain, a user must
provide its location. For Bitcoin-based blockchains, value is located by
pointing to an unspent transaction output (UTXO), identified by its transaction
ID and output index (vout).

In an effort to stay blockchain-protocol agnostic, the DEX accepts
and recognizes the locating information as a single byte-array called the
'''''coin ID''''', with the term '''''coin''''' being defined here as some
amount of spendable value that is verifiable on the blockchain.
It is up to backend and wallet developers to decide on how to properly encode the
identifier as a coin ID. As an example, Bitcoin implements
encoding as 36 bytes with the transaction hash being the first 32-bytes, and the
big-endian encoded output index as the last 4 bytes.

==Message Protocol==

DEX messaging is JSON-formatted [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259 &#91;5&#93;].
All messages, regardless of originating party, use a common top-level
structure called a '''Message'''.

'''JSON Message object'''

{|
! field    !! type !! description
|-
| type    || int || message type
|-
| payload || any || the data being transmitted
|-
| route   || string || the route identifier. requests and notifications only
|-
| id      || int > 0 || the request ID. requests and responses only
|}

There are three anticipated message types.

'''Message types'''

{|
| type         || id || description
|-
| request      || 1 || a request is typically an uninitiated message that seeks a response
|-
| response     || 2 || a response to a request
|-
| notification || 3 || usually part of a data feed. requires no response
|}

'''Example request'''

The payload for a request can be of any type.

<pre>
{
	"type": 1,
	"id": 123,
	"route" "sendnum",
	"payload": 5
}
</pre>

'''Response payload'''

The payload for a response has a structure that enables quick error checking.

{|
! field    !! type !! description
|-
| result || any || the result. field is missing or null if an error was encountered
|-
| error   || string or null || the error. field is null or missing if no error was encountered
|}

'''Example response'''

<pre>
{
	"type": 2,
	"id": 123,
	"payload": { "result": true }
}
</pre>

'''Example notification'''

<pre>
{
	"type": 3,
	"route": "notifynums"
	"payload": [1, 5, 3, 9]
}
</pre>

==Session Authentication==

Many DEX messages must be sent on an authenticated connection. Once a WebSocket
connection is established, the client will supply their account ID and signature.

'''Request route:''' <code>connect</code>, '''originator: ''' client

<code>payload</code>
{|
! field      !! type   !! description
|-
| accountid || string || account ID
|-
| apiver    || int    || requested API version
|-
| timestamp || int    || UNIX timestamp (milliseconds)
|-
| sig       || string || hex-encoded signature of serialized connection data. serialization described below
|}

'''Connect serialization'''

{|
! field   !! size (bytes) !! description
|-
| account ID || 32 || client [[accounts.mediawiki/#Step_1_Registration|account ID]]
|-
| API version || 2 || requested API version
|-
| timestamp || 8  || the client's UNIX timestamp (milliseconds)
|}

'''Connect response'''

If a client unexpectedly disconnects with active orders, the orders may match in
the client's absence. A list of any pending matches is included in the response.
If the client has a broken rule, they will not be able to trade for the duration
of their penalization.

<code>result</code>
{|
! field   !! type   !! description
|-
| matches      || &#91;object&#93; || list of [[orders.mediawiki/#Match_negotiation|Match objects]]
|-
| broken rule  || int || the client's current [[community.mediawiki/#Rules_of_Community_Conduct|rule status]]
|-
| ban time     || int || the UNIX time in milliseconds at which the penalization occured if applicable
|-
| ban duration || int || the duration in milliseconds of the penalization if applicable
|-
| ban details  || string || a message describing the penalization if applicable
|-
| sig          || string || hex-encoded server's signature of the serialized connection data
|}

==HTTP==

An API using HTTP for message transport may be provided for basic account
management and server status queries, however webWebSocketsocket connections are to be
the sole means for
[[orders.mediawiki/#Client_Order_Management|placing, monitoring, and executing orders]].
The primary reason for limiting the scope of the HTTP API is to eliminate client
polling for rapidly changing resources, such as order status API endpoints.
