=Decred DEX Specification=

__TOC__

==Introduction==

Decred DEX is a decentralized, non-custodial, trustless, and intermediary-free
cryptocurrency exchange platform. Decred DEX aims to solve a number of issues
with existing systems of exchange.

Currently, the majority of cryptocurrency trading is performed via centralized,
custodial exchanges.
These exchanges have filled an important role in the blockchain ecosystem, but
are in many ways antithetical to the spirit of blockchain.
Blockchain is decentralized, trustless, and enables self-custody, but when a
user must send their coin to a third party in order to trade, all of those
benefits are lost.

Several projects have attempted to address this misalignment by
replacing the exchange with a blockchain or a token, and they have met with
varying degrees of success.
While they remove the trusted third party (TTP), they insert their own products
as a means to capture trading fees, which replaces the TTP friction with a
new platform friction.

A more robust solution is based on [https://github.com/decred/atomicswap atomic swap technology]
[[references.mediawiki|<nowiki>[2]</nowiki>]],
which enables trustless exchange directly between wallets.
Until recently, few blockchains supported atomic swaps, but the past few years
have seen widespread adoption, and such an exchange is now possible.

Decred DEX is the first exchange built on atomic swaps that doesn't collect
trading fees. The primary service offered by DEX is to match traders through a
familiar interface based on markets and orders. Decred DEX's novel matching
algorithm disincintevizes manipulative, abusive trading practices commonly seen
on centralized exchanges. The epoch-based match cycle is difficult to game by
the client, while for the server, cryptographic order commitments make
censorship and unfair matching difficult.

While trades are fully trustless, steps are taken to discourage malicious
clients from hindering normal trade activity.
All clients must lock coins in bonds to trade.
Registered clients are then bound to the
[[community.mediawiki|rules of community conduct]], violation of which typically
results in loss of trading privileges.

In the interest of maintaining active, open-source, community-driven
development, this specification document describes the protocols necessary for
implementation of both DEX clients and DEX servers.

==Contents==

The remaining content details the Decred DEX protocol.
It is intended as a first resource when implementing servers and clients.
Continuing client-server interoperability will likely depend on subtle aspects
of the specification laid out in this document.

'''<nowiki>[1]</nowiki> [[comm.mediawiki|Communication Protocols]]''' describes the
messaging protocols and communication layer technologies that are to be used
for the DEX API.

* [[comm.mediawiki#websockets|WebSockets]]
* [[comm.mediawiki/#encoding|Data Encodings]]
** [[comm.mediawiki/#timestamps|Timestamps]]
** [[comm.mediawiki/#rate-encoding|Rate Encoding]]
** [[comm.mediawiki/#coin-id|Coin ID]]
* [[comm.mediawiki/#message-protocol|Message Protocol]]
* [[comm.mediawiki/#session-authentication|Session Authentication]]
* [[comm.mediawiki/#http|HTTP]]

'''<nowiki>[2]</nowiki> [[fundamentals.mediawiki|Distributed Exchange Design Fundamentals]]'''
describes the notable design aspects that facilitate an exchange service with
the features described above.

* [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#exchange-variables|Exchange Variables]]
** [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#global-variables|Global Variables]]
** [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#asset-variables|Asset Variables]]
** [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#market-variables|Market Variables]]
** [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#configuration-data-request|Configuration Data Request]]
* [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#fees|Fees]]
* [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#transaction-fees|Transaction Fees]]
* [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#epochbased-order-matching|Epoch-based Order Matching]]
** [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#epoch-time|Epoch Time]]
** [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#pseudorandom-order-matching|Pseudorandom Order Matching]]
* [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#identities-based-on-public-key-infrastructure-pki-key-pairs|Identification]]
* [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#blockchain-interaction|Blockchain Interaction]]
* [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#adding-new-assets|Adding New Assets]]
* [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#api-version|API Version]]
** [[fundamentals.mediawiki/#v0|v0]]

'''<nowiki>[3]</nowiki> [[admin.mediawiki|Distributed Exchange Administration]]''' describes
the tasks required to administer the exchange.

* [[admin.mediawiki/#exchange-variables|Exchange Variables]]
* [[admin.mediawiki/#per-asset-variables|Per-asset Variables]]
* [[admin.mediawiki/#administration-api|Administration API]]

'''<nowiki>[4]</nowiki> [[accounts.mediawiki|Client Accounts]]''' details account creation.

* [[accounts.mediawiki/#step-1-registration|Registration]]
* [[accounts.mediawiki/#step-2-fee-notification|Fee Notification]]

'''<nowiki>[5]</nowiki> [[orders.mediawiki|Client Order Management]]''' details the different
order types and the client/server workflows required to synchronize the order
book and place orders.

* [[orders.mediawiki/#connection-persistence|Connection Persistence]]
* [[orders.mediawiki/#order-book-subscriptions|Order Book Subscriptions]]
* [[orders.mediawiki/#order-preparation|Order Preparation]]
** [[orders.mediawiki/#calculating-transaction-fees|Calculating Transaction Fees]]
** [[orders.mediawiki/#coin-preparation|Coin Preparation]]
** [[orders.mediawiki/#order-commitment|Order Commitment]]
** [[orders.mediawiki/#order-signing|Order Signing]]
** [[orders.mediawiki/#order-id|Order ID]]
* [[orders.mediawiki/#order-types|Order Types]]
** [[orders.mediawiki/#limit-order|Limit Order]]
** [[orders.mediawiki/#market-order|Market Order]]
*** [[orders.mediawiki/#market-buy-orders|Market Buy Orders]]
** [[orders.mediawiki/#cancel-order|Cancel Order]]
* [[orders.mediawiki/#preimage-reveal|Preimage Handling]]
* [[orders.mediawiki/#match-negotiation|Match Negotiation]]
* [[orders.mediawiki/#match-revocation|Match Revocation]]
* [[orders.mediawiki/#trade-suspension|Trade Suspension]]

'''<nowiki>[6]</nowiki> [[api.mediawiki| Data API]]''' defines http and WebSocket APIs to browse
trade history.

'''<nowiki>[7]</nowiki> [[atomic.mediawiki|Atomic Settlement]]''' walks through the settlement
process with a couple of examples to provide a high-level overview.

* [[atomic.mediawiki/#case-a-perfect-match|Perfect Match]]
* [[atomic.mediawiki/#case-b-multi-taker-with-partial-fill|Multi-Taker with Partial Fill]]

'''<nowiki>[8]</nowiki> [[community.mediawiki|Community Conduct]]''' describes the system of rules
to which clients interacting with the DEX must adhere.

* [[community.mediawiki/#rules-of-community-conduct|Rules of Community Conduct]]
** [[community.mediawiki/#rule-1-clients-must-respond-to-all-preimage-requests|Preimage Response]]
** [[community.mediawiki/#rule-2-every-match-must-be-fully-settled|Fully Settle]]
** [[community.mediawiki/#rule-3-an-accounts-cancellation-rate-must-not-exceed-the-threshold|Cancellation Rate Threshold]]
** [[community.mediawiki/#rule-4-transaction-outputs-must-be-properly-sized|Transaction Output Size]]
* [[community.mediawiki/#penalties|Penalties]]
** [[community.mediawiki/#penalization-notification|Penalization Notification]]
*** [[community.mediawiki/#penalty-object|Penalty Object]]

'''<nowiki>[9]</nowiki> [[references.mediawiki|References]]''' lists references used in the development
of the specification.
